# Upgrading Cynic v1 to v2

Cynic made a number of breaking changes in v2. I've tried to make the upgrade
process as smooth as possible despite these, but here's a guide for how to do
an upgrade.

#### Update your Cargo.toml

First update the version reference for cynic in your Cargo.toml to `2`.

Some of the names of features changed in v2, so you may also need to update
those:

| old feature        | new feature             |
| ------------------ | ----------------------- |
| `surf`             | `http-surf`             |
| `reqwest`          | `http-reqwest`          |
| `reqwest-blocking` | `http-reqwest-blocking` |

Cynic v1 had some features that existed only to enable `surf` features:

- `surf-h1-client`
- `surf-curl-client`
- `surf-wasm-client`
- `surf-middleware-logger`
- `surf-encoding`.

These no longer exist in cynic v2 - you should remove these features and
instead add the equivalents to the `surf` entry in your `Cargo.toml`

#### Update queries with variables

Any of your existing QueryFragments that take variables will need to be updated
to the new argument syntax. This new syntax is very similar to the underlying
GraphQL argument syntax. For example if you currently have

```
#[arguments(
    first = args.page_size, 
    states = Some(vec![PullRequestState::Merged]), 
    after = &args.pr_cursor
)]
```

You should change this to

```
#[arguments(first: $page_size, states = ["MERGED"], after: $pr_cursor)]
```

Note that cynic will no longer re-case arguments: you should use the names of
arguments/input fields as they appear in the graphql schema.

#### Add Fallbacks to InlineFragments

If your queries have any `InlineFragments` without fallbacks you'll need to add
one to them. Cynic v2 no longer does exhaustiveness checking on
`InlineFragments`, so requires a fallback every time.

#### Update JSON decoding

If you are manually decoding cynic responses you should update the code
responsible to use `serde_json` directly rather than
`Operation::decode_response`.

#### Update `::build` calls

The `QueryBuilder::build`, `MutationBuilder::build` and
`SubscriptionBuilder::build` calls now take their
parameter by value, so you should update any uses of them accordingly.

#### Update deprecations

Rust itself should let you know about the deprecations, but you will likely
need to:

- Use the `QueryVariables` derive instead of `FragmentArguments`.
- Rename the `arguments` attribute parameter on `QueryFragment` to `variables`
