# Upgrading Cynic v2 to v3

Cynic made a few minor breaking changes in v3, but they shouldn't affect most
users.  However, there were a bunch of quality of life changes in this version.
This guide will show you how to take advantage of these.

#### Update your Cargo.toml

First update the version reference for cynic in your Cargo.toml to `3`.

This verison also added an optional `rkyv` feature that can speed up
compilation for some users.  Add this in if you like.

#### Pre-register your schemas

v3 added the concept of pre-registering schemas.  This saves you from having to
pass the `schema_path` attribute to the derives, and makes the
`schema_for_derives` macro mostly redundant (assuming you're only using one
schema at least).

To do this you should create a `build.rs` in the root of your project, with
the following contents:

```rust
fn main() {
    cynic_codegen::register_schema("github")
       .from_sdl_file("schemas/github.graphql")
       .unwrap()
       .as_default()
       .unwrap();
}
```

Where `github` is the name of your schema and `schemas/github.graphql` is the
path to the schema SDL (relative to the `build.rs` file).

See the [schemas](../schemas.md#pre-registering-schemas) page for more details.

After you've done this, you should be able to remove any `schema_path`
attributes, and any uses of the `schema_for_derives` attribute.

#### Replace `use_schema` with `#[cynic::schema]`

If you've pre-registered your schema you should update the code where you call
`use_schema`.  Find this code, it'll look something like this:

```rust
mod schema {
    cynic::use_schema!("github.graphql")
}
```

and replace it with

```rust
#[cynic::schema("github")]
mod schema {}
```

where `github` is the name you gave the schema in your `build.rs`
